Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a Sci-Fi film called "Hollow Man."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Inside a military-sanctioned research lab,
a rat inadvertently scurries into a cage in
search of food and water, but instead of finding
sustenance, it becomes prey to an unseen predator.
The invisible beast only becomes perceptible
when the rat's blood taints its sharp fangs.
Elsewhere, Dr. Sebastian Caine works overtime
in his apartment to develop a formula to reverse
a procedure that turns a subject invisible.
He stops for a while to admire his alluring
neighbor in the next building as she changes
her clothes. Sebastian's anticipation of seeing
her undress turns to disappointment when the
woman shuts the blinds on her bedroom window.
As he paces around the apartment, he suddenly
comes up with a breakthrough, so he immediately
tests it on the computer. Not long, he calls
his colleague and ex-girlfriend Linda McKay
to report his success. During a video call, he
notices a man on Linda's bed and asks who it is,
but Linda turns the camera away from the
bed, noting that her love life is no longer
Sebastian's business. After showing Linda the
breakthrough formula, he asks her to call their
colleague Matt Kensington to prepare the gorilla
Isabelle so that they could conduct a live test.
After dropping the call, Linda wakes up Matt
and tells him that they have to go to the lab
immediately because Sebastian finally cracked the
reversal formula. Linda tells him that they should
go in separate cars to keep their relationship a
secret from Sebastian. Matt hints that they will
have to let Sebastian know at some point, so
Linda assures him that she will do it someday.
Upon their arrival, Matt goes straight to
Isabelle's cage to sedate the invisible gorilla,
but before he could inject her with the solution,
the animal scratches him and runs out of the cage.
As Matt chases the ape, he runs into Sebastian in
the hallway. After grabbing a tranquilizer gun,
Sebastian initiates a $10 wager, saying
he'll be the one to get Isabelle first.
With the gorilla cornered, Matt shoots
her with the tranquilizer, but he misses.
Sebastian immediately follows up with one shot
and hits the ape, knocking her unconscious.
Dr. Sarah Kennedy, the lab veterinarian, suddenly
barges in and confronts Sebastian about injecting
the new formula into Isabelle without even
testing it. Sebastian argues that skipping the
tests will save them time. Linda interrupts their
argument to tell Sebastian that the lab is ready.
After checking Isabelle's vitals, Sarah
sprays the gorilla's arms with a dye and
taps it to prepare for the injection. As Matt
prepares to inject Isabelle with the serum,
Sebastian grabs the syringe from Matt, saying
the honor should go to him. Soon after injection,
the serum travels through the ape's
veins and makes its way to the heart.
The research team watches in amazement as
Isabelle's vital organs become visible.
However, the gorilla starts thrashing around in
pain as her blood pressure and heart rate rise.
Soon the ape starts going through cardiac arrest
and eventually flatlines, so Linda hits her with
the defibrillator several times. Sebastian asks
Matt to administer an intracardiac injection after
getting no response, but before Matt could inject
the gorilla, her heart starts beating again.
As her condition stabilizes,
Isabelle's body slowly becomes visible.
The research team celebrates their success
by dining in an upscale restaurant.
During a moment alone with Linda, Sebastian
reminisces about their failed relationship and
hints that he wants to get back together with
her. However, his hopes of rekindling their
relationship are soon dashed when he notices
her pulling back when he tries to kiss her.
Days later, Sebastian meets with an oversight
committee at the Pentagon to report his findings.
But Linda and Matt are surprised to hear Sebastian
telling them that he was unsuccessful at reversing
the procedure. Sebastian tells the committee that
the research team is close to finding a solution,
but they still need more time. Dr. Howard
Kramer, Sebastian's former teacher,
praises his ingenuity and determination, but
he warns Sebastian that the government can
easily replace him if he doesn't
show them any results soon.
Sebastian tells Linda and Matt that he wasn't
ready to let the military know about their
success, fearing that the government will take
over the project once they report their findings.
Sebastian suggests conducting a test on
humans without letting the government know.
Matt reminds him that there are rules
and procedures, but Sebastian argues that
following the rules will get them nowhere.
Sebastian assures them that they will have
a better chance of winning the Nobel Prize
by taking the project into their own hands.
When they get back to the lab, Sebastian
tells the rest of the team that they got the
clearance to go ahead with human testing because
he volunteered. Sensing the team's apprehensions,
Sebastian reminds them that they had successfully
brought back seven apes in the past four weeks.
He stresses that human testing
would be the next logical step
if they want to keep the project going.
Once they go through with the procedure,
Sebastian will stay invisible for three
days before performing the reversal.
On the day of the procedure, Matt tells Sebastian
that he can still back out, but Sebastian is
determined to be the first human test subject
for his experiment. On the operating table,
Sebastian takes the serum from Linda, saying
he'll inject himself so Linda won't be blamed
if anything goes wrong. Soon after shooting the
serum into his vein, Sebastian starts feeling
a tingle in his arm. He suddenly starts thrashing
around from the pain as his skin starts to vanish.
Seeing his unstable heart rate, Carter
Abbey, the emergency medical technician,
immediately brings the defibrillator beside the
operating table. But before they could shock him,
his heart rate begins to stabilize
even as he writhes from the pain.
Soon, Sebastian loses consciousness
while his body slowly turns invisible.
After 17 hours, Sebastian finally wakes
up. Overwhelmed by the brightness,
Sebastian tells Linda to turn off the lights,
noting that he can't shut his eyelids. Linda
points out that Sebastian can still see when
he shuts them because they are now transparent.
Sebastian immediately walks to a mirror to
see if he has really turned invisible. He
then walks with Matt and Linda to the lab to let
the rest of the team marvel at his invisibility.
Later on, Linda informs Sebastian
that one of the team members will
be staying with him if he needs anything.
The rest of the team will be on alert so
that they could run back to the lab
within 30 minutes. Before leaving,
Linda tells Sarah that Carter will come by at six
in the morning while she will be back by eight.
While Sarah sleeps, Sebastian approaches her and
caresses her hair, trying to find out if she's
awake. Not long, Sebastian starts unbuttoning her
shirt and touches her inappropriately. When Sarah
wakes up, she notices her unbuttoned shirt, so
she asks Sebastian if he's in the room with her.
When she looks at the monitor, Sebastian is
not in his bed, but he gets back and lies down
as soon as Sarah turns around. The following
morning, Sarah tells Linda and Matt about her
suspicion that Sebastian had done something to
her while she was asleep. However, Sarah tells
them not to confront Sebastian because she is
still not sure if anything happened. When Matt
asks Sebastian about his absence from his room,
Sebastian explains that he went out to get coffee.
Three days after the procedure, the team prepares
Sebastian for the reversal. After Matt injects
him with the serum, Sebastian starts breathing
heavily, telling them that something is wrong.
Soon, he thrashes around the table and breaks free
from the straps, so Matt and Carter hold him down.
However, Sebastian still manages to get up from
the table after throwing Carter across the room
and kicking Matt in the face. His body
becomes visible for a moment, but he
drops to the ground and becomes unconscious.
By the time they bring him back to the table,
Linda discovers that Sebastian no longer
has a pulse, so Matt performs C.P.R. on
him. His pulse eventually returns, and
his body slowly becomes invisible again.
When Sebastian wakes up hours later,
Linda tells him that he almost died.
Sebastian tells Linda that he needs to make some
adjustments if he's going to remain invisible,
so they make a latex mask to make him visible as
he walks around the lab. Over the next few days,
Matt desperately tries to figure out how to
reverse the procedure without killing Sebastian.
After ten days of invisibility, Sebastian
becomes frustrated from undergoing several
tests and being confined to the lab. One
night, he decides to go out when Carter
is the only one at the lab watching
over him. Failing to stop Sebastian,
Carter immediately calls the other team members
to alert them about Sebastian's departure.
While driving on the road, he decides to have
fun with two kids in a car by showing them his
empty eye sockets. Linda asks Matt to go to the
lab while she checks out Sebastian's apartment.
When Sebastian gets home, he notices his neighbor
at the next building changing her clothes.
He hesitantly decides to take advantage of his
invisibility and go to the next building to
see the woman up close. Sebastian rings the bell
several times until the woman opens the door and
comes out of the room. When she gets back inside,
Sebastian observes the woman combing her hair.
He then moves the mirror several times, causing
the woman to look around the room in a panic.
As she turns away from him, Sebastian
starts forcing himself on her.
Linda soon arrives at Sebastian's apartment
and finds his mask and clothes on the bed.
After having his way with his neighbor,
Sebastian looks out the window and sees
Linda in his apartment. He waits until
Linda leaves before returning to his home.
Back at the lab, Frank Chase, the lab
technician, hands out tranquilizer guns
to the rest of the research team as they
prepare to look for Sebastian outside.
Sebastian soon arrives and tells them that
he only went home to pick up a few things.
Linda tells him that she'll go straight to the
committee if he tries leaving the lab again. Linda
tells Matt about her concern that the invisibility
has now started to affect Sebastian's mind because
he has been invisible far longer than the animals.
While Carter performs some physical tests on him,
Sebastian confesses that he messed with a
woman while he was outside, and he liked it.
A few days later, Matt calls Linda to tell
her that he had a breakthrough. However,
the process breaks down during a simulation at the
lab. Sebastian expresses his frustration to Linda
that he cannot take advantage of his invisibility,
adding that he has become a prisoner at the lab.
When Linda tells him that he's not a
prisoner, Sebastian points out that
Linda can freely go outside and be with
her boyfriend while he's stuck in the lab.
Later that night, Sebastian grabs a piece of
electronic equipment at the lab and installs
it in the camera inside his room to run a
video loop of himself sleeping on the bed.
He decides to visit Linda's apartment and
finds out that she's been dating Matt.
As Matt and Linda begin to make love, Sebastian
breaks the window next to the bed, interrupting
them. Linda calls the lab to find out if Sebastian
has escaped, but Frank tells her that he's in bed.
Sebastian goes back to the lab, enraged with
jealousy. While pacing around the facility,
he gets annoyed by the
barking of the invisible dog,
so he grabs it and slams it on the
walls of the cage until it dies.
When Sarah confronts Sebastian about the dead
animal, he claims to be asleep when it died.
After going through the video security footage,
they conclude that Sebastian never left the room.
While Linda is working at home, she's suddenly
disturbed when she hears noises all over the room,
so she runs to the lab to see if Sebastian's
there. Linda sees him lying in bed on the video
monitor, but she doesn't find him in his
room. She realizes that he's been running
a video loop of himself in bed, so she calls
everyone in the team to get back to the lab.
Meanwhile, Sebastian walks around the parking
lot, observing the research team as they arrive.
Matt and Linda visit Dr. Kramer to report
Sebastian, but unbeknownst to them,
Sebastian followed them there. After
they leave, Sebastian attacks Dr.
Kramer by the pool and drowns him. Dr.
Kramer calls out to his wife for help,
but by the time she gets to the
pool, Dr. Kramer is already dead.
When Linda arrives at the lab the next
day, she tries to call Dr. Kramer,
but she finds out that he drowned in the pool
the previous night. She tries calling another
member of the oversight committee, but
the phone lines are suddenly disconnected.
Matt and Linda try to leave the lab, but the
security system won't let them use the elevator.
Soon, the research team learns that their
access codes inside the lab have been revoked.
As the team starts searching for Sebastian, Janice
Walton, the lab tech, falls behind while she grabs
a thermal goggle. Sebastian suddenly appears at
the door and strangles her with an I.V. line.
She screams, but her voice is drowned out by the
noise of the screeching animals in their cages.
Failing to find Kramer, Linda uses the intercom
to tell Sebastian that the committee already
knows what he did. But Sebastian reveals
that he killed Kramer the previous night
before he could tell anyone about him.
Soon, the team realizes that Janice is
missing. Using their thermal goggles, they
discover her lifeless body inside a locker.
Linda asks Frank to restore their access codes
so that they can activate motion detectors.
When they see someone moving through the
corridors, Matt and Carter arm themselves
with tranquilizer guns to find Sebastian as
Linda guides them. Carter sees heat signatures
behind the pipes, but Matt discovers
that the heat is coming from the vent.
While Matt is not looking, Sebastian grabs
Carter while hiding on a ceiling pipe.
Matt shoots him, but he misses and hits a
pipe instead. As Matt continues to shoot,
Sebastian flings Carter toward the wall. Carter
hits the corner of a metal box by the pipes,
cutting a major artery and
causing massive blood loss.
Sebastian surrounds himself with
heat emanating from the pipes,
rendering Matt's thermal goggles useless. After
running out of tranquilizers, Matt grabs a fire
extinguisher to use it against Sebastian.
With the smoke from the fire extinguisher,
Matt is able to see Sebastian, but he still
struggles to hit him. Sebastian knocks Matt
to the ground with a punch and a kick,
but Linda arrives to take him to safety.
Sarah learns that Carter has lost a lot of
blood, so she grabs several bags of blood
from the walk-in fridge. Before she could
get back to Carter, Sebastian locks her in,
so she splashes the blood all over the floor to
see Sebastian's footsteps. She manages to douse
Sebastian with blood, but Sebastian tackles
her and shoots her with the tranquilizer gun.
Not content with knocking Sarah unconscious,
Sebastian breaks her neck, killing her instantly.
Carter soon dies from severe blood loss
while Frank waits for Sarah to get back.
Frank leaves Carter's dead body behind and
goes with Matt and Linda to find Sarah.
When they discover her body in the walk-in fridge,
Sebastian emerges and stabs Frank with a crowbar.
Afterward, Sebastian stabs Matt with a metal bar
in the lower chest and locks him and Linda inside
the fridge. Sebastian goes back to his room
to wear his mask and prepare to leave the lab.
Linda patches up Matt's wound with duct tape
and escapes from the fridge using a magnetized
metal drawer handle. She then drags Matt out of
the freezer and lights a fire to warm him up.
Meanwhile, Sebastian gathers up some
chemicals to create an explosive to
blow up the lab and cover up his
crimes. He puts the chemicals in
a centrifuge and sets the timer for five
minutes before heading to the elevator.
Upon reaching the lift, Linda stops him and sets
him ablaze with a flamethrower. She slides down to
the floor to stop the elevator doors from closing
and continues shooting flames at Sebastian.
After walking out of the lift, Sebastian slowly
peels away his singed clothes, making him
invisible again. Linda uses the remaining fuel
on the flamethrower to activate the sprinklers.
Sebastian manages to sneak up on her and subdue
her, but Matt comes to her rescue, knocking
Sebastian out with a crowbar. Sebastian tries to
hit Matt with the crowbar, but Matt fends him off,
causing him to hit a fuse box. As Sebastian gets
electrocuted, his body becomes partially visible.
Matt and Linda discover the makeshift
explosive that Sebastian made,
so they run to the elevator in the hopes
of climbing the ladder that leads outside.
As they climb up, the makeshift bomb
explodes, sending the elevator upwards,
scraping Linda's shoulder. The elevator is then
pulled back down, but it stops just before it
hits Matt. As they start climbing the ladder
again, Sebastian pulls Linda back down. Linda
and Sebastian fall on the elevator, which is
hanging only by a thick wire. As Linda struggles
to break free, and Sebastian steals one last
kiss, telling her that it's for old time's sake.
While they kiss, Linda grabs the wire holding up
the elevator and uses her foot to disconnect it.
Linda hangs onto the wire as she watches Sebastian
fall to his death down the elevator shaft. Linda
and Matt soon emerge from the burning building
as firefighters scramble to put out the flames.
Before Sebastian turned invisible, the research
team managed to tolerate his arrogance and extreme
competitiveness. More of his bad qualities seemed
to turn up soon after becoming the test subject of
his own experiment. He immediately mistreated
Sarah the first night he became invisible.
When the reversal procedure failed, he grew
agitated from being confined in the lab,
so he decided to break protocol and
leave. With no one to stop him outside,
he takes advantage of his invisibility
and assaults his neighbor.
Sebastian's obsession with Linda also grew
out of control throughout the experiment.
Although he's not in a relationship with Linda,
he killed an innocent dog in a jealous rage when
he discovered her relationship with Matt. Out
of all his bad traits, the deadliest so far
has been his ambition. In an effort to preserve
his career, he killed his mentor Dr. Kramer, and
he created an elaborate plan to blow up the lab,
with all his colleagues trapped inside, to destroy
all the evidence of his crimes. If it wasn't
for Linda and Matt, he might have succeeded.